# Answers for Web request and HTTP protocol

### 1: What happens when you type the URL www.google.com in the web browser?

1. The browser asks the DNS server for the IP address of google.com
2. The browser establishes a TCP connection to the webserver
3. The browser sends a GET request to the server
5. Server processes the request and send back a response
6. Browser renders the content

### 2: Definition of HTTP and HTTPS and what's the difference

 - HTTP: Short for Hypertext transfer protocol, which is mainly used for transfering content over the internet, including website content and API calls. HTTP is a layer 7 (Application level)


 - HTTPS: Basically HTTP but secure, instead of seeing just the plaintext request. The attacker would only see an encrypted request. 

### 3:     Definition of HTTP requests and response? What are the component inside the HTTP request and Response? What are Security Headers and what is the purpose for each of them?

 - HTTP works by a request-response model, the user sends a request and the server response. An example of a request that is generated by an user: 

```
GET /hello HTTP/1.1
User-Agent: curl/7.63.0 libcurl/7.63.0 OpenSSL/1.1.l zlib/1.2.11
Host: www.example.com
Accept-Language: en
```

This section of text, generated by the user's browser, gets sent over the internet. In this case, the browser is requesting the `/hello` page from the `www.example.com` website, and our user-agent is `curl/7.63.0` which tells the web server what kind of client is connecting to them.

After the server processes the request, it returns a response: 

```
HTTP/1.1 200 OK
Date: Wed, 30 Jan 2019 12:14:39 GMT
Server: Apache
Last-Modified: Mon, 28 Jan 2019 11:17:01 GMT
Accept-Ranges: bytes
Content-Length: 12
Vary: Accept-Encoding
Content-Type: text/plain


<!DOCTYPE html>
<html>
    <head>
        <title>Example</title>
    </head>
    <body>
        <p>This is an example of a simple HTML page with one paragraph.</p>
    </body>
</html>
```

In this response, the web server returns the webpage that the user requested. 

- Security headers are security measures within the response headers to prevent security vulnerabilities like Cross-Site scripting, Clickjacking, information disclosure and more.

### 4:
- Some common security headers: 
   -  `Strict-Transport-Security`: lets a website tells browsers that it should only be used 
   -  `X-XSS-Protection`: helps protect webites against injection attacks 
   -  `X-Frame-Options`:  The X-Frame-Options HTTP response header can be used to instruct the browser whether a web page should be allowed to render a `<frame>`, `<iframe>`, `<embed>` or `<object>` element on website or not.
    -  `Content-Security-Policy`: Instructs the browser to load only the allowed content in the policy. If implemented correctly, this can prevent the exploitation of XSS attacks.

### 5: Explain the process of how a web app can remember what you do on their website? What are the differences between cookies, local Storage and session Storage? 

There are many ways that a web applications can a remember what you do on website, such as Cookies, Local Storage and Session Storage. 

- Cookie: the legacy way to store data before HTML5. It is mainly used to store user infomation such as name, password, etc.....
- Local Storage: basically cookies but on steroids, it allows up to 10mb of storage, and is mainly used for storing data that the user might need to use later, like PWAs, pre cached images.....
- Session storage: it's similar to cookie but it's limited to the current browser session, once the tab is closed, the data is deleted. 

The main difference between Local, Session storage and Cookie is the storage size. Cookies only allowed for 4KB, while Local and Session storage allows up to 10mb and 5mb respectively. 
### 6: What is HTTP status code? Give some common status codes:

HTTP status codes indicate whether a specific HTTP request has been successfully completed. Some common responses are: 

```200 OK```: The request succeeded. 

```404 Not Found```: The resource requested doesn't exists 

```500 internal server error```: The server encountered an error that it could not handle 

```403 forbidden```: The client doesn't have permission to access the requested resources. 

```401 Unauthorized```: The client needs to first authenticate to accesss the requested resources. 

### 7: DNS 

DNS is short for domain name system, is the phonebook of the internet, it translates IPv4 or IPv6 address to human readable names to make it easier to navigate around the internet. This is how it works:

1. When you enter a domain into the URL bar, the browser sends a query to the recursive resolver to ask "where is this website".
2. Your request first would be process by a root server. Root servers are running all over the world and each one knows about DNS infomation about top-level domain such as .com, .org, etc
3. Then your request would pass by the TLD (Top level domain) servers, which stores DNS info for second level domain. When your query reaches the TLD, the TLD name server answers with the IP address of the domain. 
4. The browser and the server begins communicating. 

